Title: How we protect you | ANZ
Source URL: https://www.anz.com.au/security/how-we-protect-you/
Retrieval Date: 2026-01-09
Content Type: public

Find ANZ
Contact
Article related to:
How we protect you
We offer security you bank on, with evolving fraud detection technology, biometrics monitoring in our banking apps and Internet Banking, plus a team of specialists to help you 24/7.
Find ANZ
Support Centre
How we protect you
With evolving fraud detection technology, biometrics monitoring in our banking apps and Internet Banking, plus a team of specialists to help you 24/7, we offer security you can bank on. Read on to learn more about how we help protect you from cyber criminals.
See latest scams, fraud and security alerts

Topics
How we protect you

How to protect yourself
Keep your family safe
Keep your devices secure
Types of frauds and scams
Confirmation of Payee (CoP)
Confirmation of Payee checks if the account details you’ve entered matches the details held by the recipient’s bank. This can help you to make a decision about what to do next.
ANZ Falcon®
Advanced security features like ANZ Falcon® and behavioural biometrics to help keep your banking secure and offer tips on what you can do to stay safe.
ANZ Digital Padlock
Bank more confidently, knowing ANZ Digital Padlock helps lock scammers out. Digital Padlock's one-button protection puts you in control.
Even more ways to safeguard your money every minute of every day.
ANZ Shield
ANZ Shield is a security app that verifies your ANZ Internet Banking activity. Get more protection when you bank online. Learn more.
Bank account security
Explore bank account security with ANZ. We protect you with advanced fraud detection technology, multi-step security for transactions, 24-hour immediate support, and more.
SMS one-time passcode (OTP)
SMS OTP can provide more protection for your ANZ online banking activities. We may send you a SMS OTP to verify a range of online banking activities, such Pay Anyone payments and creating a PayID.
ATM security
ANZ ATMs come with in-built features to help protect you from security threats like card skimming. Learn how to keep your bank details safe with ATM security.
ANZ Fraud Money Back Guarantee
ANZ's Fraud Money Back Guarantee can reimburse you for fraudulent transactions, offering security and peace of mind.
Credit card security
ANZ credit card security offers 24/7 anti-fraud protection, fraud money back guarantee, microchips and more. Find out how we protect your credit card.
Voice ID
Use Voice ID in the ANZ App to make payments over $1,000. No codes. Instead of a PIN or password, you just have to say the phrase "My voice confirms my identity".
Online banking security device
Learn how to set up and make the most of your ANZ Security Device to gain added security and peace of mind when banking online.
Online banking security
Learn how the ANZ App and Internet Banking protects your finances online with added security features like Voice ID, ANZ Shield and more.
ANZ Chief Information Security Officer, Dr. Maria Milosavljevic discusses ANZ’s stance on security
Click to play video
01:25
Security resources
ANZ
Types of scams and what to watch out for

What is credit card fraud? Protect yourself

Banking securely guide (summary) (PDF 1MB)

Being safe online (easy read guide) (PDF 4MB)

Australian Cyber Security Centre
'
Have you been hacked?' quiz

Cyber security guides for your family

Sign up for cyber security email alerts

National Anti-Scam Centre
The Little Black Book of Scams

Videos, factsheets and reports

Australian Banking Association
Scams Fact Sheet in different languages

Get in contact with us
Report a lost or stolen card
Report fraud or scams
Important information
The information set out above is general in nature and has been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs. Before acting on the information, you should consider whether the information is appropriate for you having regard to your objectives, financial situation and needs. By providing this information ANZ does not intend to provide any financial advice or other advice or recommendations. You should seek independent financial, legal, tax and other relevant advice having regard to your particular circumstances.

---
Original URL: https://www.anz.com.au/security/how-we-protect-you/
Scraped: 2026-01-09
