Title: Lost or stolen cards | ANZ
Source URL: https://www.anz.com.au/support/online-banking/manage-your-card/lost-stolen-card/
Retrieval Date: 2026-01-09
Content Type: public

Find ANZ
Support Centre
Lost or stolen cards
Lost your debit or credit card, or think your card has been stolen? It can be unsettling but we’re here to help, fast. The quickest way to report your ANZ card as lost or stolen is in the ANZ App.
If your card has been stolen, or you've lost it, you need to report it immediately. Failure to report your card immediately as lost or stolen could see you held liable.
Jump to
Temporarily block your card
Report your card lost or stolen
Received your new card?
Are you an ANZ Plus customer?
Access support for your
lost or stolen ANZ Plus card
.
Temporarily block your ANZ card
Misplaced your card? It happens. You can block it in the ANZ App while you take some time to look for it. Then, unblock it in just a few seconds when you find it again.
Temporarily block credit card or debit card:
Log in to the ANZ App and choose your
card
or the
account your card is linked to
Tap
Manage
, then
Manage card
Tap
Temporarily block card
, then
Block card
. Done!
While your card is blocked
Your temporary card block can take up to 15 minutes, and you won't be able to make any payments or withdrawals using your card or card details.
But not to worry – you can continue to spend using your digital wallet. Any services or recurring payments you've set up using your card details will also continue to work.
If your card turns up in a safe place, just repeat the steps above, but tap
Unblock card
to start using it again.
How to: Temporarily block and unblock your card
Click to play video
1:15
Report your ANZ card lost or stolen
In the ANZ App
To cancel your card and have a replacement card sent to your registered address:
Log in to the ANZ App and choose your
card
or the
account your card is linked to
Tap
Manage
, then
Manage card
(swipe left under cards to see other cards)
Tap on
Report card lost or stolen
and follow the prompts. Done!
If you have any further questions relating to your lost or stolen card, you can always
Message Us
Your card will be sent to you within 5-7 working days (for addresses within Australia).
Cards for additional cardholders will be sent to the primary cardholder address (unless otherwise requested).
Tip: If you would like your replacement card sent to a different address simply
Message Us
. If you're overseas, we can courier the card to you at a cost of $50. Phew!
How to: Report your card lost or stolen in the ANZ App
Click to play video
1:40
By phone
You can call us to report a lost or stolen credit card or debit card, 24/7.
Within Australia, call us on 1800 033 844
From overseas, call us on +61 3 8699 6955
Tip: To avoid international call costs, contact the local operator in the country you’re in from a landline, and request a reverse charge call to the number above.
Worried your PIN has been disclosed?
Change your PIN immediately in the ANZ App or at an ATM. If you’re unable to change your PIN, we recommend you
temporarily block
your card using the steps above.
While you wait for your card
If you use a digital wallet, your card should automatically update within 15 minutes of cancelling your old card. If you can’t see the updates in your digital wallet, once you receive your card, visit
Pay on the go with your digital wallet
for assistance setting it up.
If you see a transaction on your card that doesn't look right,
contact us to raise a dispute
as soon as possible.
Is your device, with the ANZ App installed, lost or stolen?
Contact us
immediately so we can ensure your account is secured.
Received your new card?
Great news! Now, you’ll need to
activate your new card
before you can use it.
And because cards reported as lost or stolen are automatically cancelled, you'll also need to change a few things.
Automatic credit card payments
Using '
Pay ANZ Credit Card
' in ANZ Internet Banking? Just delete the original and set up a new one once the new card is activated. If you've set up
CardPay Direct
, your payments will transfer over automatically.
Bill payments
If you have any recurring transactions set up (like your phone bill or subscriptions such as streaming services), simply contact the relevant company and give them your new card details. To see which merchants have your card details, log in to the ANZ App, tap
More
and
Ongoing & One-off payments
.
Digital wallet
Use your phone to make payments on the go. Set up a digital wallet on your
compatible device
.
Your security is important to us
Whether you’re shopping or travelling, your ANZ credit and debit cards are protected round-the-clock.
Feel secure with ANZ Falcon™ which alerts us 24/7 to any unusual transactions, provides our ANZ Fraud Money Back Guarantee, plus Visa Secure for extra protection when you’re buying online.
Learn more about your ANZ card security
Need more help?
Message us
For fast support, message us in the ANZ App. Available 24/7.
Message us in the app

Contact us
Don’t have the ANZ app? Download it now or find other ways to contact us.
Contact us

Visit us
Find your local branch and book an appointment to visit us.
Find a branch

Important information
The ANZ App is provided by Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited (ANZ) ABN 11 005 357 522. Super and Insurance (if available) are not provided by ANZ but entities which are not banks. ANZ does not guarantee them. This information is general in nature only and does not take into account your personal objectives, financial situation or needs. ANZ recommends that you read the ANZ App Terms and Conditions available
here for iOS (PDF)
and
here for Android (PDF)
and consider if this service is appropriate to you prior to making a decision to acquire or use the ANZ App.
Top

---
Original URL: https://www.anz.com.au/support/online-banking/manage-your-card/lost-stolen-card/
Scraped: 2026-01-09
