Title: Reporting for regulated persons | ANZ
Source URL: https://www.anz.com.au/support/legal/rates-fees-terms/target-market-determinations/ddo-reporting/
Retrieval Date: 2026-01-09
Content Type: public

Find ANZ
Support Centre
Reporting for regulated persons
Under the
Treasury Laws Amendment (Design and Distribution Obligations and Product Intervention Powers) Act 2019 Cth.
(DDO), a regulated person engaging in retail product distribution conduct must report complaints and significant dealings to us.
The Target Market Determination (TMD) may specify other information we require be reported to us from specified regulated persons. Any specification of that kind does not limit the reporting obligations of regulated persons under the Corporations Act.
This periodic DDO complaint reporting obligation is separate to ANZ's complaint management and internal dispute resolution requirements. If a customer wishes to make a complaint regarding ANZ’s products or services, ANZ staff, or the handling of a complaint by ANZ, the customer should be
referred to ANZ
.
For more information on DDO reporting requirements, refer to our
Quick Reference Guide (PDF 1.6MB)
. An accessible version of our Quick Reference Guide can be found
here
.
Complaints reporting
Provide ANZ with complaints received for the period as outlined in the TMD.
For 5 or less complaints, the data can be submitted via the form below.
Go to form
For more than 5 complaints, please complete the Excel template and submit via email to
DDO@anz.com
.
Excel reporting templates for complaints can be found below:
Template – Deposit intermediaries (xlsx)
Template – Other regulated persons (xlsx)
Significant Dealings
Notify ANZ of a Significant Dealing that is not consistent with the TMD.
Go to form
Other information as specified in the TMD
Advise ANZ of other information as specified in the TMD.
Go to form
If you have any questions or issues with reporting, please
email us
.
Top

---
Original URL: https://www.anz.com.au/support/legal/rates-fees-terms/target-market-determinations/ddo-reporting/
Scraped: 2026-01-09
