Title: Decoding Target Market Determinations | ANZ
Source URL: https://www.anz.com.au/support/legal/rates-fees-terms/target-market-determinations/
Retrieval Date: 2026-01-09
Content Type: public

Find ANZ
Support Centre
Target Market Determinations
What’s a Target Market Determination?
A Target Market Determination (TMD) is a written document that describes who a product has been designed for and conditions on how the product can be distributed to customers.
TMDs are required under the
Treasury Laws Amendment (Design and Distribution Obligations and Product Intervention Powers)
Act 2019.
They are part of a broad framework designed to ensure we take a customer centric approach to the design and distribution of our products.
Jump to
DDO Reporting
Target Market Determinations
Frequently asked questions
Additional information for regulated persons
Under DDO, a regulated person engaging in retail product distribution conduct must report to the issuer information relating to:
complaints received in relation to the product; and
significant dealings that are not consistent with the TMD.
In addition, a TMD may specify that other information be reported to us by specified regulated persons.  Any specification of that kind does not limit the reporting obligations of regulated persons under the Corporations Act.
See the relevant TMD for further information.
Personal and Business Products
This information can be reported to ANZ via the relevant
DDO Reporting form
.
For more information, refer to our
DDO reporting Quick Reference Guide (PDF)
.
Institutional Products
This information can be reported to your Relationship Manager or Transaction Banking Account Manager.
ANZ Capital Notes
This information can be reported to ANZ via the relevant
DDO Reporting form
.
For more information, refer to our
DDO reporting Quick Reference Guide (PDF)
.
Target Market Determinations
On this page you can find current TMDs for our products.
View historical TMDs
Personal
Home Loans
ANZ Fixed Rate (PDF)
ANZ Standard Variable Rate (PDF)
ANZ Simplicity PLUS (PDF)
ANZ One (PDF)
ANZ Plus Home Loan Variable (PDF)
Bank Accounts
ANZ Access Advantage (PDF)
ANZ Access Basic (PDF)
ANZ Pensioner Advantage (PDF)
ANZ Progress Saver (PDF)
ANZ Online Saver (PDF)
ANZ Term Deposit (PDF)
ANZ Advance Notice Term Deposit (PDF)
ANZ Term Deposits via Platforms (PDF)
ANZ V2+ Broking (PDF)
ANZ V2 PLUS (PDF)
ANZ SMSF Cash Hub (PDF)
ANZ Premium Cash Management Account (PDF)
ANZ Cash Advantage (PDF)
ANZ Smart Choice Cash Investment Option (PDF)
ANZ Overdraw Feature (ANZ Private) (PDF)
ANZ Plus Everyday and ANZ Plus Growth Saver (PDF)
ANZ Plus Flex Saver (PDF)
ANZ Plus Everyday (PDF)
ANZ Plus Growth Saver (PDF)
Credit Cards
ANZ Low Rate Credit Card (PDF)
ANZ Low Fee Credit Cards (PDF)
(ANZ First and ANZ Platinum)
ANZ Rewards Credit Cards (PDF)
(ANZ Rewards Platinum, ANZ Rewards Black)
ANZ Frequent Flyer Credit Cards (PDF)
(ANZ Frequent Flyer Platinum, ANZ Frequent Flyer Black)
Personal Loans
ANZ Variable Rate Personal Loan (PDF)
ANZ Fixed Rate Personal Loan (PDF)
Insurance
ANZ Car Insurance (PDF)
ANZ Home Insurance (PDF)
ANZ Landlords Insurance (PDF)
Zurich Ezicover Direct Life Insurance (PDF)
Zurich Ezicover Income Protection Insurance (PDF)
Investing and Super
ANZ Smart Choice Super and Pension (PDF)
(This product is issued by OnePath Custodians)
ANZ Smart Choice Super for employers and their employees (PDF)
(This product is issued by OnePath Custodians)
ANZ Enhanced Yield Fund (PDF)
(This product is issued by OnePath Funds Management Limited)
ANZ Fixed Income Fund (PDF)
(This product is issued by OnePath Funds Management Limited)
Business
Business Accounts
ANZ Business Essentials (PDF)
ANZ Business Extra (PDF)
ANZ Business Online Saver (PDF)
ANZ Term Deposit (for business purposes) (PDF)
ANZ Business Notice Term Deposit (PDF)
ANZ Farm Management Deposit Account (PDF)
ANZ Statutory Trust Account (PDF)
ANZ Negotiator Investor (PDF)
Business Loans and Overdrafts
ANZ Business Loan for Personal Investment (PDF)
ANZ Business Offset (PDF)
ANZ Indemnity Guarantee Facility Account (PDF)
ANZ Capital Notes
ANZ Capital Notes
See historical TMDs
Institutional
Institutional Markets
ANZ FX Value Today (PDF)
ANZ FX Value Tomorrow and Spot (PDF)
ANZ FX Forward Exchange Contracts (PDF)
ANZ Agricultural Commodity Swaps (PDF)
ANZ Money Market Deposits (PDF)
Institutional Transaction Banking
ANZ Corporate Transaction Account (PDF)
ANZ Foreign Currency Account (PDF)
ANZ Corporate Statutory Trust Account (PDF)
ANZ Client Monies Account (PDF)
If you would like to access the Target Market Determinations for ANZ Staff only products, please contact us at
anzplusdeposits@anz.com
.
Frequently asked questions
What are the Design and Distribution Obligations (DDO)?
From 5 October 2021, DDO will require issuers and distributors to take a customer centric and targeted approach
to the design and distribution of financial products. In doing so, DDO is intended to help customers acquire products that are consistent with their needs, objectives and financial situation.
What are the obligations for issuers?
DDO requires issuers to:
create and maintain a publicly available TMD for products in scope of DDO;
take reasonable steps that will, or are reasonably likely to, result in distribution being consistent with the TMD;
review the TMD to ensure that it remains appropriate;
notify ASIC of any significant dealings that are not consistent with the TMD; and
keep records of decisions made in relation to the TMD and associated reviews (together with the reasons for those decisions).
What are the obligations for distributors?
DDO requires distributors to:
not distribute a product unless a TMD is in place;
take reasonable steps that will, or are reasonably likely to, result in distribution being consistent with the TMD;
notify the issuer of significant dealings that are not consistent with the TMD; and
collect and keep complete and accurate records of certain information and provide that information to issuers.
Please refer to the relevant TMD and our
DDO Reporting Quick Reference Guide (PDF)
for more information on how to report information to ANZ.
Who do these obligations apply to?
Under DDO, these obligations apply to anyone who engages in “retail product distribution conduct”.
“Retail product distribution conduct” is defined under the
Corporations Act 2001
(Cth) to include:
dealing in a financial product;
giving a disclosure document in relation to offering a financial product;
providing a PDS; and
providing financial product advice.
What are distribution conditions?
The TMDs set out distribution conditions that apply to the relevant products.  Distribution conditions are restrictions or conditions on distribution which, if followed, are intended to make it likely that the customer is in the target market for that product.
Important information
A TMD is not a recommendation, opinion or advice that any person acquire the product or is within the target market for the product.  A particular person’s objectives, financial situation and needs may differ from others in the class of persons who form the target market for the product.  A TMD does not summarise the terms or risks of the product.  A TMD is not an offer of, or invitation to apply for, the product to any person in Australia or in any other jurisdiction. It does not set out all obligations of regulated persons in relation to the product or the TMD. Persons considering applying for a product should first contact ANZ to obtain information about the product and the application process.
Top

---
Original URL: https://www.anz.com.au/support/legal/rates-fees-terms/target-market-determinations/
Scraped: 2026-01-09
