Title: Making tax time, less taxing | ANZ
Source URL: https://www.anz.com.au/support/online-banking/spending-savings/tax-time/
Retrieval Date: 2026-01-09
Content Type: public

Find ANZ
Support Centre
Making tax time, less taxing
When tax time comes around each year, you may need to lodge an Australian tax return.  To make things easier, we've gathered some useful information and tips to help you get tax ready.
Jump to
Get the statements you need online
How to view your interest and charges
What to do once you receive your tax refund
Get the statements you need online
There may be a number of reasons you might need to access your account statements at tax time, such as records for an investment property or you might have tax-deductable expenses related to your work.
You can do it yourself online, using the ANZ App or Internet Banking. View your latest statement or one from up to seven years ago. You can save them, email them or print them if you'd prefer a hard copy.
We'll show you how

How to view your interest and charges
To view your interest and charges in Internet Banking.
To view for a specific account:
Log in to
Internet Banking
.
Select an account from your list.
Select the
Details
tab.
Expand the
Interest and charges
section by clicking on the arrow to the right.
To view a summary of all of your eligible accounts:
Log in to
Internet Banking
.
Go to the
Settings
menu.
Under Account Preferences, select
View interest and charges summary
.
To view term deposit interest history:
Log in to
Internet Banking
.
Select your term deposit.
Then select the
Interest history
link. The term deposit details are divided into an account summary and investment details.
What interest and charges you'll see online
You can view the following information for the current financial year and previous financial years
disclaimer
:
Total interest paid -
interest debited from your account(s)
Total interest received
- interest credited to your account(s)
Government charges and bank fees
- debited from your account(s).
Tip:
Think it’s a rebate? It could be a scam.
Know the signs

What to do once you receive your tax refund
Tax refund or windfall
Whether you've received a tax refund, inheritance, employment bonus or lottery win, we have some smart ideas for how to make the most of your financial windfall.
Managing debt
Learn about different types of debt, as well as tactics & clever tricks to get on top of it with ANZ's financial wellbeing guidance.
View your account details
See how to quickly and securely view your bank details, including balances, interest, fees, charges and more with the ANZ App and Internet Banking.
Need more help?
Message us
For fast support, message us in the ANZ App. Available 24/7.
Message us in the app

Contact us
Don’t have the ANZ app? Download it now or find other ways to contact us.
Contact us

Visit us
Find your local branch and book an appointment to visit us.
Find a branch

Important information
The ANZ App is provided by Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited (ANZ) ABN 11 005 357 522. Super and Insurance (if available) are not provided by ANZ but entities which are not banks. ANZ does not guarantee them. This information is general in nature only and does not take into account your personal objectives, financial situation or needs. ANZ recommends that you read the ANZ App Terms and Conditions available
here for iOS (PDF)
and
here for Android (PDF)
and consider if this service is appropriate to you prior to making a decision to acquire or use the ANZ App.
Interest and charges summary for eligible accounts only. Some interest, charges and fees may not appear. For more information, please refer to your account statements via ANZ Internet Banking or the ANZ App.
Return
Top

---
Original URL: https://www.anz.com.au/support/online-banking/spending-savings/tax-time/
Scraped: 2026-01-09
